## Improved predictions of Environmental Justice throughout Vietnam through Various Geospatial Models and Methods
By Richard She
April 4th, 2020

### Introduction
  With Vietnam serving as a host to a plethora of social and environmental issues, the Environmental Justice movement has become ever so prevalent within the country’s borders thus I found it necessary to base by literature review on the journey to effectively mapping Environmental Justice across Vietnam. The ultimate goal is to raise awareness of various environmental degradation facets and seeing how it overlaps with people of various backgrounds (income, education, etc) in order to hold the government accountable for its promises and actions to combat corruption and create better policies in the future.  The purpose of this project is to improve upon the use of Environmental Justice mapping to generate an overlaid cohesive map system combining social and environmental demographics in Vietnam by specifying, estimating and validating a variety of methods such as kriging or Random Forest. Such social demographics will include the distribution of minority and high and low-income populations while the potential environmental quality issues will include various indicators such as the extent of air pollution, water contamination in regards to facilities such as power plants or industries. After data on such facets is collected, it can be used by the government to encourage outreach and education and to combat environmental injustice. 

### Human Development Topic
  The economics, social and environmental diversity in Vietnam provides a melting pot of opportunities to explore and analyze using geospatial technology. Over the past several decades, Vietnam has embodied prime examples of the universal struggles and goals for nations transitioning from developing to developed nations. While extensive government reforms and efforts have raised over half of the population above the poverty line, such actions nonetheless come with consequences in the form of non-sustainable growth, corruption, and pollution. In 2016, an extensive case of marine pollution left immense damage to the fishing industry and the surrounding community. In four provinces alone, an estimated 300 tons of fish died, leading to the transnational lawsuit of nearly 8,000 citizens. Several dozen major toxic waste scandals also plague the nation. In a country as corrupt as Vietnam, it is no surprise these activities may not be properly addressed or reported. With environmental degradation and inequality on the rising globally, the idea of Environmental Justice has continued to be pushed into the forefront of the world. Coined in the US in the 1980s, the term Environmental Justice refers to the equality and fair treatment of all people under environmental laws, policies, and regulations [3]; it’s an ideal build on the notion that everyone deserves the right to a clean environment and healthy resources. Ethical uses of land, accountability, and equality thus serve as the pillars of the movement. In my eyes, this movement exemplifies the struggle for human development as defined by Amartya Sens. The process of enlarging the choices and freedoms of people isn’t a quality designated to the rich and powerful, its a right for all classes of people whether rich, poor, educated or not. Its often quite easy to simply look at technological and social enlarging in cities but we must nonetheless include those forgotten people living in slums or isolated villages in this metric too. No minority group, race or gender is subject to disproportionate exposures to pollution. With a wide variety of information and uses, this map has the potential to significantly further efforts and progress of SDG goals 1, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16 and potentially many others.
  The means of obtaining all the information needed to create a map on environmental justice is quite extensive as data on pollution and social indicators must be obtained and analyzed with a map of locations of infrastructure within Vietnam. One problem agent that is involved in environmental degradation, a huge issue plaguing the people of Vietnam. Vietnam is located downstream of major rivers and thus contains many vast river networks, however, the lack of civic awareness and industrial waste management programs have led to a large deal of water pollution where the people’s main source of water comes from rivers and streams. As a result, in many places, especially remote locations, diseases such as e coli and cholera run rampant. In a study case in 2009, researchers found extremely high levels of e coli in groundwater which was attributed to the bird flu outbreak from 2004 as people were improperly disposing of poultry by throwing them into rivers and burying them underground. While the government intends to improve water quality in urban areas significantly by 2025, there is no reliable methodology or source to even monitor this goal. The example I gave provides a view on a small facet of environmental injustice that doesn’t even bear to scratch the surface of the gravity of the issue. When we factor in other examples of water pollution or even look at other major agents of environmental degradation such as air pollution, which is attributed to the deaths of an estimate 60,000 people a year in Vietnam, or deforestation and analyze that along with the social demographic agents of poverty and education, the bigger picture of the injustice can be seen. 

### Human Development Method/Geospatial Data Methods
  The unique aspect of this project is that it essentially calls for and combines a multitude of research and geospatial methods from all aspects of human life. In order to create the most basic map to identify environmental justice, basic information on the location of infrastructure, distribution of ethnic groups & income, along with several environmental indicators must be found. From there the next step is the derive an algorithm that can combine each of these separate covariates and see if any correlations exist between them. Is there a specific ethnic group that is continually marginalized and forced to live by polluted river sources caused by an unregulated factory? Are lower-income individuals who have lower education levels more likely to contract Cholera as compared to people who have received at least a high school diploma? How can outreach to remote areas suffering from environmental injustice be coordinated? The issue is that we don’t know which of these problems exist or not in Vietnam and if so, where and who is marginalized. The first steps to tackling these issues all rely on the existence of this comprehensive map. Very few of these maps exist in the world and are more so created on a national level for developed nations rather than developing nations such as Vietnam. Having such a map available would greatly aid Vietnam is achieving sustainable development goals all the while tackling corruption and raising awareness of the environment. Due to the lack of pioneering in environmental justice, some of the sources I explore deals with methods and approaches that could be integrated to better collect data on indicators. For the sake of time, this literature review will heavily focus on the mapping of air pollution research and methods of approach.
  After conducting research on environmental indicators, I found the use of Kriging techniques to play a huge role in many facets of environmental mapping. Kriging techniques have played a huge role in studies ranging from investigating groundwater quality to monitoring ozone or particulate matter. Kriging, otherwise known as Gaussian process regression, is a method of interpolation, a type of estimation, and within a normally distributed confidence interval, Kriging gives a least-squares estimation. Kriging was originally developed for mining but has since seen its uses in environmental science and geostatistics. A significant paper details the use of Kriging techniques in determining the relation between the spatial distribution of sulfur dioxide, ozone and particulate matter and asthma in New York [8]. By comparing asthma hospitalizations with air pollutants, major threat areas can be identified. Air quality data and pollution concentrations of SO2, O3, and PM2.5 were collected from close to eighty monitoring sites around New York and then using Kigring methods, scientists were able to create a spatial distribution map detailing predictions of such concentrations across the entire state. Through the use of Ordinary Kriging, scientists developed a dataset detailing the parameters of a semivariogram including the Mean Standardized and Root Mean Square Standardized error [8]. Asthma rates from discharge hospital reports were compared with extracted values of pollutants on a country by country basis and correlation analysis from the SPSS statistical program was used along with the Pearson two-tailed correlation analysis to provide numeric values of correlation among each pollution concentration (O3, SO2, PM2.5). The study found significant associations between SO2, PM2.5 and asthma levels. Even though this study was conducted in New York State, the methodology used can greatly aid in Vietnams case. About five percent of the population in Vietnam suffers from asthma with only 40% being able to manage it effectively. If this methodology is further analyzed with income or ethnic distributions in different provinces, we can more effectively tackle environmental injustice; evidence may show that certain groups are more susceptible to such diseases due to their location and the facilities surrounding them. Effective mapping and recording of such diseases like asthma are extremely limited in Vietnam, however, with little to no data exists in the more rural areas. The use of Kriging can thus be extremely valuable when dealing with areas of uncertainty.
  I found several published papers pertaining to air pollution indicators in Vietnam with one study tracking black carbon (BC) and its migration across the Hanoi region. Black carbon is a strong indicator for several things including but not limited to monsoons, precipitation, and even asthma. Vietnam is the 5th highest emitter of BC after China, Pakistan, India, and Indonesia and is mostly emitted over the Hanoi region, home to approximately 10 million citizens. The results of this study captured BC and PM2.5 concentrations over a monthly time frame along with analysis of rainy seasons and climate in order to see whether rice biomass burnings contribute heavily to air pollution [1]. BC is heavily influenced by winds, precipitation, and atmospheric mixing heights so BC data was adjusted for rain patterns since they have the most utility in determining long term trends of pollutants. In order to map rainfall patterns, daily rain patterns from 2012 to 2016 were obtained from the Climate Hazards Group InfraRed Precipitation with Station which provided coarse data resolution at around a .5 degree resolution [1]. Satellite programs, the MERRA reanalysis dataset were integrated with meteorological factors such as wind and precipitation in order to explore BC trends elevated by degraded air quality and biomass burning. Several other covariates were studied in this analysis including cloud coverage which is a necessary indicator for such uses of satellites as it helps to illustrate how effective the satellite method of study is in determining pollutant levels. A country-level analysis showed that Vietnam had the highest average monthly cloud cover in SE Asia, standing at 72.4% and analysis of average cloud coverage over each month was given per 1-degree grid cell. The cloud coverage, in this case, helps correlate the number of fire detections from biomass burning. Southern Vietnam experiences its highest cloud coverage during the rainy months of July and August while Hanoi experiences its peak around March or June. The data here can be used to help explain the fluctuation of air pollutants around this time. In the end, the study resolved to be inconclusive; while this method can be of great asset in the future, there are many things holding it back from its potential. Firstly, the BC dataset is not sensitive to the biomass burning as the .5 degree grid cells average over much of the urban Hanoi region and rice fields in the countryside. Moreover, ground station datasets are essential for monitoring air pollution in order to compare with the MERRA program which this study lacked. This illustrates the specificities that may potentially affect readings on environmental justice; it is necessary that we overlay such a reading in order to explain certain trends and such in order to obtain the most comprehensive map possible. With 17 million people living within the “rice bowl” region of Vietnam made up of 12 different provinces and an 80% participation rate, even mapping of rice residue burnings can help provide valuable data to help further outreach or education to specified areas if more research is conducted. Are certain groups here marginalized? Do samples populations of these burnings have higher rates of lung diseases? The most specific studies to explain different trends will help provide the most intricate readings on environmental justice.
  In order for such a process to exist, however, reliable data on such facets is necessary. A 2014 study if air quality was performed in Hanoi to introduce the use of the Air Quality Index (AQI). While an attempt in 2011 failed to record the importance of pollution concentrations, authors in this study set up coefficients of importance for pollutants such as O3, NO, SO2, PM2.5 by developing the AQUIS (Air Quality Index Software) to manage data and calculate air pollution. AQUIS was developed with the use of a GIS processing module. After calculating the AQI in various locations of Hanoi from overlaying monitoring sites along with administrative maps. Information from here created a foundation for the creation of a Real-time AQI Visual Map in Vietnam. However innovative this process was, the problem remains that only 7 of these AQI location maps exist in Vietnam where the number of pollutant concentrations mapped varies from place to place [2]. This problem needs to be adequately addressed in the future.
  An online tool called EJScreen dedicated to mapping environmental justice in the United States began late development in 2010 and is made up of a total of 17 indicators which then combines into 11 environmental justice indices, reflecting environmental and demographic data. The data provided comes from two platforms, the EPA’s Geoplatform and ArcGIS program. ArcGIS is a tool developed and managed by the ESRI which creates maps, analyzes map information and compiles geographic data [4]. ArcGIS is built around a geodataset that serves as a container for various datasets that only contain topographical data. The geodataset can model traffic behaviors to road intersections. Along with this, it is integrated along with several applications including ArcMap, ArcCatalog, and ArcToolbox. The EJ index is created by multiplying together the environmental indicator value, by the population group in a specific area of research with the demographic index of the said group minus the demographic index of the US. Areas that show alarming signs of injustice are taken into account and researched further. Although the EJScreen has pioneered environmental justice mapping, it still has its limitations; it still does not provide adequate data pertaining to every environmental impact or demographic data and current events cannot be considered as well. The results obtained from the EJScreen, therefore, must be supplemented with additional information and local knowledge to get the complete picture. Nonetheless, the EJScreen provides a great tool to use to build upon for environmental justice screening in Vietnam as it provides for the basic structures and data needed to execute a map of this magnitude. 
  Each of the methods and datasets introduced with some of these sources can serve as foundation blocks for the creation for efficient EJ mapping as they all contain their own unique methods for how to integrate data better given the situation in Vietnam. Kriging can help with mapping uncertainty, the specificity of actions that could possibly relate to air pollution must be explored to gain the best reading for the development of the map. Techniques to be able to find correlations across indicators must be explored. 

### Discussion
  After hours of research, I have found that the likelihood of a map of this magnitude that can solely and effectively define breaches of environmental justice will mostly not be able to be developed in Vietnam. Only looking at the air pollution facet in Vietnam, the country heavily lacks the resources and monitoring sites needed to create a proper dataset. While the methods of integrating and analyzing said data using Kriging techniques may help in evaluating unknown regions void of data to a certain extent, it can only be so specific with a few air quality monitoring sites across the entirety of Vietnam. Along with this, it is extremely difficult to account for many actions and norms that may inadvertently result in the fluctuation of air quality. For example, the paper dedicated to researching the potential effects of rice biomass burning brings up quite an innovative idea however, even then not enough research has been conducted on it. There are simply too many facets to integrate into the creation of an EJ map with the information needed to be covered on each relevant issue, whether it be with the effects of new coal plants or developing better monitoring services, evident of some annotations in Assignment 1. Research in other indicators falls shorts of my expectations as well. Regarding the mapping of income levels per region, there wasn’t data I could find that could specifically denote the income or poverty levels among a defined grid cell using household surveys, full census data and a log-linear function, which was done by the World Bank in 2002 [6]. Papers were able to define estimated poverty levels across whole provinces but the accuracy of that cannot provide insightful data for evaluating EJ without further research. The best thing at this point, in my perspective, is the creation of a site similar to the EJScreen which can provide very basic datasets of broad facets to aid in further research of specific problems. There are simply too many factors to account for the make a standalone EJ mapping program. Many research gaps exist within Vietnam for even a program like the EJScreen to exist; essentially more data and more specific grid cells are needed in order to facilitate the possibility of research for some of these environmental and social indicators. The best course of action, for now, is to narrow down my research topic, even more, to focus on methods and solutions to find cheap ways of data monitoring across either one of multiple environmental facets. If such a task if do-able I will move onto methods of integration between these indicators and social factors to provide basic results for some environmental justice indicators. 

### References
1. Lasko, K., Vadrevu, K. P., & Nguyen, T. T. N. (n.d.). Analysis of air pollution over Hanoi, Vietnam using multi-satellite and MERRA reanalysis datasets. Retrieved from https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0196629#sec010
2. The World Air Quality Index project. (n.d.). Air Pollution in Vietnam: Real-time Air Quality Index Visual Map. Retrieved from https://aqicn.org/map/vietnam/
3. Environmental Justice. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/environmental-justice
4. Environmental Justice Indexes in EJSCREEN. (2019, December 2). Retrieved from https://www.epa.gov/ejscreen/environmental-justice-indexes-ejscreen
5. Fall 2012. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.esri.com/news/arcnews/fall12articles/epa-builds-map-service-on-arcgis-online-for-organizations.html
6. Baulch, B., & Minot, N. (2002). The Spatial Distribution of Poverty in Vietnam and the Potential for Targeting. World Bank. Retrieved from http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/243651468760506704/120520322_20041117161550/additional/multi0page.pdf
7. International Environmental Technology. (2014, March 7). Air Quality Assessment and Air Pollution Zoning of Hanoi Using Air Quality Index  . Retrieved April 3, 2020, from https://www.envirotech-online.com/article/air-monitoring/6/hanoi-university/air-quality-assessmentnbspand-air-pollution-zoning-of-hanoi-using-air-quality-index-nbsp/1582
8. Gorai, A. K., Tuluri, F., & Tchounwou, P. B. (n.d.). A Gis Based Approach for Assessing the Association between Air Pollution and Asthma in New York State, Usa . International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health ISSN 1660-4601 .
9. Kim, S. E., Harish, S. P., Kennedy, R., Jin, X., & Urpelainen, J. (2019). Environmental Degradation and Public Opinion: The Case of Air Pollution in Vietnam. The Journal of Environment & Development, 107049651988825. doi: 10.1177/1070496519888252
10. Ngo, T. B., Nguyen, T. A., Vu, N. Q., Chu, T. T. H., & Cao, M. Q. (2012). Management and monitoring of air and water pollution by using GIS technology. Retrieved February 22, 2020, from https://www.researchgate.net/publication/237010127_Management_and_monitoring_of_air_and_water_pollution_by_using_GIS_technology
11. Nguyen, Thanh & Ha, D & Ngoc, Do Thi Nhu & Nguyen, V & Ngo Xuan, Truong & Pham Van, Ha & Nguyen, N & Bui, Hung. (2019). Air pollution monitoring network using low-cost sensors, a case study in Hanoi, Vietnam. IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science. 266. 012017. 10.1088/1755-1315/266/1/012017. 

