# Response to Joshua Blumenstock's article

Richard She

1. Describe the promise, pitfalls and ways forward Blumenstock uses as the foundation for his thesis.

  While data science has already made its positive mark within the international community, many prevalent issues still mar the efficiency of such a tool. With 95% of the populous having phone coverage, implementations of data science have created new paths for data collection beyond many conventional means, saving much time and energy ultimately allowing for greater and quicker efforts from organizations and companies in addressing many humanitarian issues. Data collected from mobile phones has even been used to find the correlation between international calls and poverty levels where people who make more international calls generally have a better socio-economic status. Actions such as these or mapping out digital footprints seem to provide means in combatting disease and various humanitarian problems however they still come with many pitfalls. Satellite mapping has even enabled the international community to distribute humanitarian aid based on thatched roofs. As discussed in the reading, four main components are hindering this form of data science from excelling within our world today. Firstly, solutions derived from big data continues to empower those who already have power; uses of digital credit, which grants loans based on phone usage, have been used to extort significant populations in Kenya and China as with immensely high-interest rates, many are unable to repay such loans and thus are forced into debt traps. 
  
  Furthermore, algorithms are trained to favor developed rather than developing nations as it is harder for people in emerging economies to be well represented through digital data. At the end of the day, data from electronics require electricity, phones, and other accessories, many of which these people do not have. Additionally, a lack of transparency among these international efforts has prevented much money and aid from getting where they need to go. According to a study in 1996 in Armenia, only 8% of tens of millions of dollars was able to reach the neediest citizens. At the end of the article, Blumenstocks also provides many possible solutions to this issue. One overarching solution is to encourage greater collaborative efforts among humanitarian groups, governments and data scientists. This allows for the creation of a melting pot of perspectives and a deeper understanding of the problems people face around the globe which can generate more accurate long-term models. Another solution Blumenstocks points to is to validate data using conventional means since this method can push data mapping and collection towards greater accuracy as well. The Food Programme in Haiti already implements such methods and uses conventional survey methods alongside mobile data collection.  Hopefully through these methods, we can optimize the efficiency and accuracy of data science.
