## 1. In the reading, the authors use a number of geospatial covariates as predictors in their machine learning method. What were these geospatial covariates and approximately how big of a data set did they represent (in general terms)? What is the significance of big data in the estimation of machine learning methods for inferring the correlates and drivers of human population distributions?

A machine learning algorithm is an algorithm that can perform specific tasks without being asked to and, is in a way, similar to artificial intelligence. Given a specific set of data, a machine learning algorithm can build mathematical models and make predictions in the process all the while "learning" from this data as well. In this regard, such machine learning algorithms can be employed without being constantly updated and redone like that of classical statistical models and methods.

## 2. In the reading, the authors use a number of geospatial covariates as predictors in their machine learning method. What were these geospatial covariates and approximately how big of a data set did they represent (in general terms)? What is the significance of big data in the estimation of machine learning methods for inferring the correlates and drivers of human population distributions?

Covariates such as land cover, road and river feed, health facility locations are all examples of the data that the Random Forest method used to more accurately predict population models. These covariates were employed across quite a wide area; it was not only used in areas such as Vietnam but also employed in many other countries, and this extensively of these covariates implies that the more data and overlay we have, the more accurately we can make population models. 

## 3. The authors’ results present a remarkable improvement over previous geospatial descriptions at very high resolution, of the distribution of the human population. Within the context of human development in LMICs, what is the significance of having a highly accurate description of where each person is located across planet earth?

Especially when it comes to dealing with the predicament many low-income nations are having with a lack of census data and such, we must devise a way that can portray the accuracy of population models in the same light as many developed nations. By having a better read on the density and distribution of people across such nations, humanitarian efforts and government policies regarding outreach or education could thus be better implemented.

## 4. Within the context of human development in LMICs, what is the relevance to your area of investigation in having a highly accurate description of where each household and person is located across planet earth?

Vietnam has been historically marred by much poverty and thus has been seen as a developing country. While the country has been making rapid improvements over the past decades with raising an immense portion of the population above the poverty line, lack of professionalism in GIS technology and unreliable mapping has presented many problems. An updated read on such technology covering environmental, population and other facets would be necessary for not only developing future policies but also keeping the government in check and truthful to their promises, especially for a government ensured by corruption.
